PBFIFO(8)                                             Linux                                            PBFIFO(8)



NAME
       pfifo - Packet limited First In, First Out queue

       bfifo - Byte limited First In, First Out queue


SYNOPSIS
       tc qdisc ... add pfifo [ limit packets ]

       tc qdisc ... add bfifo [ limit bytes ]


DESCRIPTION
       The  pfifo and bfifo qdiscs are unadorned First In, First Out queues. They are the simplest queues possi‐
       ble and therefore have no overhead.  pfifo constrains the queue size as measured in packets.  bfifo  does
       so as measured in bytes.

       Like  all  non-default  qdiscs, they maintain statistics. This might be a reason to prefer pfifo or bfifo
       over the default.


ALGORITHM
       A list of packets is maintained, when a packet is enqueued it gets inserted at the tail of a list. When a
       packet needs to be sent out to the network, it is taken from the head of the list.

       If the list is too long, no further packets are allowed on. This is called 'tail drop'.


PARAMETERS
       limit  Maximum queue size. Specified in bytes for bfifo, in packets for pfifo. For pfifo, defaults to the
              interface txqueuelen, as specified with ifconfig(8) or ip(8).  The range for this parameter is [0,
              UINT32_MAX].

              For  bfifo,  it  defaults  to  the txqueuelen multiplied by the interface MTU.  The range for this
              parameter is [0, UINT32_MAX] bytes.

              Note: The link layer header was considered when counting packets length.


OUTPUT
       The output of tc -s qdisc ls contains the limit, either in packets or in bytes, and the number  of  bytes
       and packets actually sent. An unsent and dropped packet only appears between braces and is not counted as
       'Sent'.

       In this example, the queue length is 100 packets, 45894 bytes were sent over  681  packets.   No  packets
       were dropped, and as the pfifo queue does not slow down packets, there were also no overlimits:

       # tc -s qdisc ls dev eth0
       qdisc pfifo 8001: dev eth0 limit 100p
        Sent 45894 bytes 681 pkts (dropped 0, overlimits 0)

       If a backlog occurs, this is displayed as well.

SEE ALSO
       tc(8)


AUTHORS
       Alexey N. Kuznetsov, <kuznet@ms2.inr.ac.ru>

       This manpage maintained by bert hubert <ahu@ds9a.nl>



iproute2                                         10 January 2002                                       PBFIFO(8)
