PERF-INJECT(1)                                     perf Manual                                    PERF-INJECT(1)



NAME
       perf-inject - Filter to augment the events stream with additional information

SYNOPSIS
       perf inject <options>

DESCRIPTION
       perf-inject reads a perf-record event stream and repipes it to stdout. At any point the processing code
       can inject other events into the event stream - in this case build-ids (-b option) are read and injected
       as needed into the event stream.

       Build-ids are just the first user of perf-inject - potentially anything that needs userspace processing
       to augment the events stream with additional information could make use of this facility.

OPTIONS
       -b, --build-ids=
           Inject build-ids into the output stream

       -v, --verbose
           Be more verbose.

       -i, --input=
           Input file name. (default: stdin)

       -o, --output=
           Output file name. (default: stdout)

       -s, --sched-stat
           Merge sched_stat and sched_switch for getting events where and how long tasks slept. sched_switch
           contains a callchain where a task slept and sched_stat contains a timeslice how long a task slept.

       --kallsyms=<file>
           kallsyms pathname

       --itrace
           Decode Instruction Tracing data, replacing it with synthesized events. Options are:

               i       synthesize instructions events
               b       synthesize branches events
               c       synthesize branches events (calls only)
               r       synthesize branches events (returns only)
               x       synthesize transactions events
               e       synthesize error events
               d       create a debug log
               g       synthesize a call chain (use with i or x)
               l       synthesize last branch entries (use with i or x)
               s       skip initial number of events

               The default is all events i.e. the same as --itrace=ibxe

               In addition, the period (default 100000) for instructions events
               can be specified in units of:

               i       instructions
               t       ticks
               ms      milliseconds
               us      microseconds
               ns      nanoseconds (default)

               Also the call chain size (default 16, max. 1024) for instructions or
               transactions events can be specified.

               Also the number of last branch entries (default 64, max. 1024) for
               instructions or transactions events can be specified.

               It is also possible to skip events generated (instructions, branches, transactions)
               at the beginning. This is useful to ignore initialization code.

               --itrace=i0nss1000000

               skips the first million instructions.

       --strip
           Use with --itrace to strip out non-synthesized events.

       -j, --jit
           Process jitdump files by injecting the mmap records corresponding to jitted functions. This option
           also generates the ELF images for each jitted function found in the jitdumps files captured in the
           input perf.data file. Use this option if you are monitoring environment using JIT runtimes, such as
           Java, DART or V8.

SEE ALSO
       perf-record(1), perf-report(1), perf-archive(1)



perf                                               08/22/2017                                     PERF-INJECT(1)
