MKFIFO(3)                                   Linux Programmer's Manual                                  MKFIFO(3)



NAME
       mkfifo - make a FIFO special file (a named pipe)

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/types.h>
       #include <sys/stat.h>

       int mkfifo(const char *pathname, mode_t mode);

DESCRIPTION
       mkfifo()  makes  a  FIFO  special file with name pathname.  mode specifies the FIFO's permissions.  It is
       modified by the process's umask in the usual way: the  permissions  of  the  created  file  are  (mode  &
       ~umask).

       A FIFO special file is similar to a pipe, except that it is created in a different way.  Instead of being
       an anonymous communications channel, a FIFO special file is entered  into  the  file  system  by  calling
       mkfifo().

       Once you have created a FIFO special file in this way, any process can open it for reading or writing, in
       the same way as an ordinary file.  However, it has to be open at both ends simultaneously before you  can
       proceed  to  do  any  input or output operations on it.  Opening a FIFO for reading normally blocks until
       some other process opens the same FIFO for writing, and vice versa.  See fifo(7) for nonblocking handling
       of FIFO special files.

RETURN VALUE
       On  success  mkfifo()  returns  0.   In the case of an error, -1 is returned (in which case, errno is set
       appropriately).

ERRORS
       EACCES One of the directories in pathname did not allow search (execute) permission.

       EDQUOT The user's quota of disk blocks or inodes on the file system has been exhausted.

       EEXIST pathname already exists.  This includes the case where pathname is a symbolic  link,  dangling  or
              not.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              Either  the total length of pathname is greater than PATH_MAX, or an individual filename component
              has a length greater than NAME_MAX.  In the GNU system, there is no imposed limit on overall file‐
              name length, but some file systems may place limits on the length of a component.

       ENOENT A directory component in pathname does not exist or is a dangling symbolic link.

       ENOSPC The directory or file system has no room for the new file.

       ENOTDIR
              A component used as a directory in pathname is not, in fact, a directory.

       EROFS  pathname refers to a read-only file system.

CONFORMING TO
       POSIX.1-2001.

SEE ALSO
       mkfifo(1), close(2), open(2), read(2), stat(2), umask(2), write(2), mkfifoat(3), fifo(7)

COLOPHON
       This  page  is  part  of  release 3.53 of the Linux man-pages project.  A description of the project, and
       information about reporting bugs, can be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



GNU                                                2013-01-27                                          MKFIFO(3)
