TUNA(8)                            System Administration Utilities                           TUNA(8)



NAME
       tuna - program for tuning running processes

SYNOPSIS
       tuna [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       This  manual page explains the tuna program. The program can be used to change the attributes
       of application and kernel threads. tuna can operate on IRQs by name or number, and  tasks  or
       threads  by  process  ID  or  command-line.  CPUs and sets of CPUs can be specified by CPU or
       socket number. IRQ names and process command-lines can include wildcards.

       tuna can change scheduling policy, scheduler priority and processor  affinity  for  processes
       and  process  threads. tuna can also change the processor affinity for interrupts.  When tuna
       is invoked without any options it starts up in its graphical interface mode. This manual page
       explains only the command-line options for tuna

OPTIONS
       tuna  has both action options and modifier options. Modifier options must be specified on the
       command-line before the actions they are intended to modify. Any modifier option  applies  to
       following actions on the same command-line until it is over-ridden.

       Actions

       -h, --help
              Print  a  list of options. tuna will exit after this action, ignoring the remainder of
              the command-line.

       -g, --gui
              Start the GUI. Actions that follow this on the command-line will be processed  without
              waiting for the GUI to complete.

       -a, --config_file_apply=profilename
              Apply changes described in profile

       -l, --config_file_list
              List preloaded profiles

       -i, --isolate
              Move all threads away from CPU-LIST. Requires -c or -S.

       -I, --include
              Allow all threads to run on CPU-LIST. Requires -c or -S.

       -m, --move
              Move selected entities to CPU-LIST. Requires -c and either -t or -q.

       -p, --priority=[POLICY:]RTPRIO
              Set thread scheduler tunables: POLICY and RTPRIO. POLICY is one of OTHER, FIFO, RR, or
              BATCH. If -t is not set, -p will act as a  Modifier  saving  the  sched  tunables  for
              future Actions, for example -r.

       -P, --show_threads
              Show thread list.

       -s, --save=FILENAME
              Save kthreads sched tunables to FILENAME.

       -r, --run="COMMAND"
              Run  the  COMMAND.  If  arguments are passed, the entire command line must be provided
              inside "quotes". Modifiers -c and -p can be used to set  the  affinity  and  scheduler
              tunables  of  the  given  COMMAND.  The  arg[0]  (i.e.  the  command)  will  be set in
              THREAD-LIST. Likewise the -t, the COMMAND accepts the prefix + and - as  wildcards  in
              order to be appended or removed from THREAD-LIST, respectively.

       -v, --version
              Show version

       -W, --what_is
              Provides help about selected entities. Requires -t.

       -x, --spread
              Spread  selected entities over CPU-LIST. Requires at least one of -t or -q. The speci‐
              fied threads and IRQs are each assigned to one cpu in CPU-LIST.

       Modifiers

       -c, --cpus=CPU-LIST
              CPU-LIST affected by commands. Requires a CPU number or a comma-separated list of  CPU
              numbers.

       -C, --affect_children
              Operation will affect children threads.

       -f, --filter
              Disable display of selected CPUs in --gui. Requires -c

       -G, --cgroup
              Display the processes with the type of cgroups they are in. Requires -P

       -K, --no_kthreads
              Operations will not affect kernel threads.

       -q, --irqs=IRQ-LIST
              IRQ-LIST affected by commands. Requires an IRQ number or a comma-separated list of IRQ
              numbers.

       -S, --sockets=CPU-SOCKET-LIST
              CPU-SOCKET-LIST affected by commands. Requires a socket number  or  a  comma-separated
              list of socket numbers.

       -t, --threads=THREAD-LIST
              THREAD-LIST affected by commands. Requires a thread number or thread name, or a comma-
              separated list of thread numbers and/or names. Thread names may contain wildcards.  Be
              sure  to quote or escape any wildcard specifications. If only - is passed as argument,
              the THREAD-LIST will be cleared.

       -U, --no_uthreads
              Operations will not affect user threads.

USAGE EXAMPLES
       If for instance the Ethernet NICs have multiple queues for both receive  and  transmit,  each
       with its own IRQ, the Ethernet IRQs can be associated with a CPU socket:

       tuna -S 2 -i -q 'eth*' -x

              Move  everything  off  the  CPUs  in  socket  2, then spread the IRQs for the Ethernet
              devices across those same CPUs.



tuna                                        February 2010                                    TUNA(8)
