TCGETPGRP(3)                          Linux Programmer's Manual                         TCGETPGRP(3)



NAME
       tcgetpgrp, tcsetpgrp - get and set terminal foreground process group

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       pid_t tcgetpgrp(int fd);

       int tcsetpgrp(int fd, pid_t pgrp);

DESCRIPTION
       The  function tcgetpgrp() returns the process group ID of the foreground process group on the
       terminal associated to fd, which must be the controlling terminal of the calling process.

       The function tcsetpgrp() makes the process group with process group ID  pgrp  the  foreground
       process group on the terminal associated to fd, which must be the controlling terminal of the
       calling process, and still be  associated  with  its  session.   Moreover,  pgrp  must  be  a
       (nonempty) process group belonging to the same session as the calling process.

       If  tcsetpgrp()  is  called by a member of a background process group in its session, and the
       calling process is not blocking or ignoring SIGTTOU, a SIGTTOU signal is sent to all  members
       of this background process group.

RETURN VALUE
       When  fd  refers to the controlling terminal of the calling process, the function tcgetpgrp()
       will return the foreground process group ID of that terminal if there is one, and some  value
       larger  than 1 that is not presently a process group ID otherwise.  When fd does not refer to
       the controlling terminal of the calling process, -1 is returned, and errno is  set  appropri‐
       ately.

       When successful, tcsetpgrp() returns 0.  Otherwise, it returns -1, and errno is set appropri‐
       ately.

ERRORS
       EBADF  fd is not a valid file descriptor.

       EINVAL pgrp has an unsupported value.

       ENOTTY The calling process does not have a controlling terminal, or it has one but it is  not
              described  by  fd, or, for tcsetpgrp(), this controlling terminal is no longer associ‐
              ated with the session of the calling process.

       EPERM  pgrp has a supported value, but is not the process group ID of a process in  the  same
              session as the calling process.

CONFORMING TO
       POSIX.1-2001.

NOTES
       These functions are implemented via the TIOCGPGRP and TIOCSPGRP ioctls.

   History
       The ioctls appeared in 4.2BSD.  The functions are POSIX inventions.

SEE ALSO
       setpgid(2), setsid(2), credentials(7)

COLOPHON
       This  page  is  part  of  release  3.53 of the Linux man-pages project.  A description of the
       project,    and    information    about    reporting    bugs,     can     be     found     at
       http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



GNU                                          2003-01-28                                 TCGETPGRP(3)
